Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is a standard from World Wide Web Consortium (W3C)

What does W3C do?
W3C's primary activity is to develop protocols and guidelines that ensure long-term growth for the Web. W3C's standards define key parts of what makes the World Wide Web work


Since it is “Scalable”, the viewer can scale the SVG image up and
 down in size without losing its quality because graphics are defined as
 numbers instead of pixels. Scaling the image means just multiplying or dividing numbers to define the SVG shapes.


The following are points to remember about SVG:

SVG stands for Scalable Vector Graphics.
SVG is a standard from W3C.
SVG defines vector based graphics in XML format.
SVG is intended to display graphics or images over the web.
SVG supports interactivity and animation.
SVG images never lose quality, whether it is zoomed out or zoomed in because it is vector based graphics.
SVG also integrates well with other W3C standards like DOM and XSLT.



SVG Uses

As it is a vector graphics format, it is most commonly used for the following:

X, Y coordinate system, in other words two-dimensional graphics.
Pie charts, column charts and other charts.
Architecture and design diagrams.
Logos and scalable icons for web.


SVG Viewer

SVG is best viewed in Firefox and opera web browsers, but Internet Explorer needs an SVG viewer plugin installation for viewing SVG


SVG disadvantages

Size can be big even for smaller images.
Is not supported in all browsers.
Size of text format is larger than binary formatted raster images.


Embed your SVG XML directly into HTML pages:

The <svg> tag is used to indicate the start of a SVG image.
The <svg> tag's width and height defines the width and height of the SVG image.
The <circle>, <rect>, <ellipse> and so on tags are used to draw various shapes.
X and Y represents the centre of the shapes and the default value is (0, 0) and also use the “r” attribute for radius in case of a circle.
Stroke and stroke-width controls the outlining of shapes.
Fill attribute defines the fill colour of the shapes.
The </svg> indicates closing or ending of SVG image.
Since there are XML files, all the elements should be properly closed.



Assignment

1. Implement an image version of what we have done using svg